#### Meeting from: October 2nd, 2019
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hernández (@claudiahdz)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Discuss proposals & ideas on the PRs/issues outlined
- Open PRs, Templates & labels
- npm support subcommand
- npm cache list
- docs: scoped names can begin with '.' & '_'
- #48 Link .hook scripts
- #1 Display package size information postinstall
- #51 Expose arborist metadata to lifecycle scripts
- #43 Peer dependencies installation
- Document the discussion & next steps

### Notes:
- Darcy: Create public calendar with recurring event
- Darcy: Create livestream integration for these calls
- Agenda overview
- Standardizing labels
  - Good first issue
  - Needs discussion (?)
  - Try to set common standards across the communities
- Support subcommand
  - Schema conversation in the package maintenance group
  - PR open in the cli: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/246
  - Support from other cli clients
  - Intention to land asap in the npm cli
  - Possible confusion with the name “Support” from users (is this related to the npm Inc. support team?)
  - Concerns about the schema consensus, it’s going to be hard to change it after landing an initial implementation
  - Package maintenance team is more concerned about a long term solution
  - Loop back with the package maintenance working group
    - Segment the conversation
    - Then the current PR can tackle only that specific part (monetary) of the problem that the working group is currently tackling
- npm cache list
  - Ping Isaacs about it in order to get feedback
  - labeled as semver-minor so it can potentially be a part of next release
  - PR open in the cli: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/194
- Docs: scoped names can begin with '.' & '_'
  - Seems to be wip
  - Open PR: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/134
- Link .hook scripts
  - Seems to have a concern from Isaacs
  - Open PR: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/48
- Display package info post-install
  - Open PR: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/1
  - Concerns about it being a misleading metric for end users
  - Hide it behind a flag or create a separate command (?)
- Expose arborist metadata to lifecycle scripts
  - Need input from Isaacs
  - Open PR: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/51
- Peer dependencies installation
  - Maybe have a session with the rest of the team to explain to the team the background history here and why do we want to do it again
- Meta: make sure we have a livestream next time in order to help increase awareness of the open rfc calls
