#### Meeting from: October 16th, 2019
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Daniel Sauble (@djsauble)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Funding Package Maintainers (note: this needs RFC, Issue or PR)
- #51 Expose arborist metadata to lifecycle scripts
- npm cache list
- #43 Peer dependencies installation
- docs: scoped names can begin with '.' & '_'
- #48 Link .hook scripts
- https://github.com/npm/bin-links/pull/5 
- Open RFC Meeting @ Collab Summit
- Discuss new day/time for meeting
- Discuss announcements (When? Where? How?)
- https://github.com/nodejs/create-node-meeting-artifacts

### Notes:

#### Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Introduction, open rfc goal is to interact with the community
- Feel free to send proposals

#### Funding Package Maintainers (note: this needs RFC, Issue or PR)
- Package Maintenance working group from OpenJS foundation is putting up work towards a spec
- Draft spec: https://gist.github.com/darcyclarke/dd77c8f1fb895c5063bf39723a27d0fa
- Goal is to have monetary means to maintainers to be supported by the community
- We're going to focus on "funding" aspect
- Planning to integrate it on both website and cli
- Ruy is going to be championing the development for the work on the cli
- Idea is to have a post install highlight the funding metadata results
- `npm fund` command similar to (or adapted from) draft work from: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/246
- opt-out flag `--no-fund`
- Intent is to land on next minor version `6.13.0`, 2 - 3 weeks from now
- Idea is to loop back with package maintenance group in order to validate spec
- We would like to have an actionable way to "resolve" funding for projects already backed in the future
- Takeaways:
  - Create PR against npm RFC repo with the result from the WG formalized spec

#### Expose arborist metadata to lifecycle scripts
- RFC: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/51
- Would require input from Isaac
- Wants to expose metadata from arborist into env variables
- Seems to build upon work on https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/38
- Needs discussion

#### npm cache list
- PR: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/194
- Would be nice to have input from Isaac or Jacobs
- Seems to be very useful in order to take a peek into the current cache
- Has no tests right now

#### Peer dependencies installation
- RFC: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/43
- Need Isaac
- Semver major, would land on npm@7

#### docs: scoped names can begin with '.' & '_'
- Just docs wording
- Should land on next release
- Also be picked up for new docs website

#### Link .hook scripts
- RFC: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/48
- Creates a `package.json` syntax to declare hooks without necessarily using `.hooks/` folder
- PR: https://github.com/npm/bin-links/pull/5
- Needs code review
- Isaac expressed concerns in the RFC
- Semver major

#### Open RFC Meeting @ Collab Summit
- Have a live session during the OpenJS Foundation collaboration Summit 13-14 in Montreal
- Action item: Propose the meeting at the OpenJS Foundation collab summit repo
- To be confirmed if the Community & Open Source team will be all there
- Action item: Ruy proposes the summit session at the Github repo

#### Discuss new day/time for meeting
- Find a meet time/day in which more folks can attend
- Many options of time in a given day
- Post an issue in which we can run polls to define the time for the next meeting
- Publish agenda in advance
- Action item: Claudia will create the issue on the rfcs repo to coordinate that

#### Discuss announcements (When? Where? How?)
- Get the agenda into people's radar sooner
- Reach out to folks that have open rfcs in the repo currently
- Can we automate this process?
- Use attendants from the community as a way to promote the open rfc calls
- Going forward we should have livestream and hopefully more social media traction
- Action item: Mike will automate creation of the agenda
- Agenda can be generated 1 week prior to the next OpenRFC call
