#### Meeting from: March 4th, 2020
# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees:

- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@izs)

### Agenda:

- Housekeeping (introductions, outlining intentions & desired outcomes)
- Code of Conduct: https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct
- Poll: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/105
- PR: #103 RFC: Add npm workspaces
- PR: #96 RFC: Add publish confirmation prompt
- Issue: #95 [RRFC] --save-peer flag
- Issue: #93 [FEATURE] Standardised Browser-based Login Mechanism
- PR: #92 RFC: Add staging workflow for CI and human interoperability
- PR: #90 RFC: reduce lifecycle script environment size
- PR: #76 rfc: Signed Packuments
- Issue: #75 [FEATURE] prompt for module type as part of npm init
- PR: #72 acceptDependencies package.json field
- Issue: #513 [FEATURE] Support for monorepo dependency installations with NPM
- Issue: #506 [BUG] npm audit places false blame
- PR: #71 RFC: Verified Account Linking

### Notes:

- [3] Skipped, in favor of meeting next Wednesday.
- [4] Out of the agenda.
- [4] The CLI is not aware if 2FA is enabled or not, we should take a look at this before going into discussion.
- [4] Ruy will update the RFC.
- [5] The recent workspaces/monorepo discussions have brought up the importance of making dependencies work together properly, hence improving how peerDependencies work
- [5] We should have a flag to save dependencies as peer, the implementation is on arborist already. 
- [5] Isaac concerned on how we save dependencies. Should peer dependencies be associated to version ranges instead of a git deps? Logic is complicated.
- [5] Agreed the CLI should just support `--save-peer` flag.
- [5] More discussions have to be made around how we handle peerDependencies.
- [6] Currently, standardizing shouldn't be hard to implement, we should prioritize this work on `npm-profile`.
- [6] Need some final questions answered, a proper spec and it will be ready to be added to the backlog.
- [7] Worth of a deep-dive session, a lot of unanswered questions on the issue.
- [7] This feature has a lot of different use-cases that makes discussion harder.
- [7] Allowing installing from a subdirectory in git, could solve _some_ of these use cases.
- [7] https://github.com/npm/cli/issues/528
- [7] https://github.com/npm/npm-package-arg/pull/46
- [8] To be ratified.
- [8] Conventions of names aren't changing. Package fields aren't normally used as environment variables either way.
- [9] Currently blocked. Concerned about the overhead this will create during installation. 
- [9] npm has to queue up the work needed on infra.
- [9] Can we move forward the CLI part of just fetching signatures and validating it, regardless of the infra implementation?
- [9] A signature failure is like an integrity failure.
- [9] Two downloads, instead of one (packument and signature). 
- [9] signed packuments vs signed versions? Modifications on which versions are available
- [9] We have to outline the delta in threat models that signed packuments gets us, and signed tarballs doesn't.
- [11] Feature has been implemented already in Arborist. Coming soon in v7.
- [11] To be ratified.
- [14] When transitive dependencies are out of date, there's no clear way to fix those up.
- [14] npm update, only updates first-level deps and has a depth field.
- [14] In v7, npm will update all your deps that are out of date in the tree.
- [14] npm audit results can be changed in v7.
- [14] Agreed we can change/improve UX on audit in v7.
