#### Meeting from: July 8th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb)
- Ruy Adorno(@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)
- Glenn Hinks (@ghinks)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#160 [Poll] Preference on how to filter workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/160)
1. **PR**: [#150 RFC: Add file+pack dependency protocol](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/150)
1. **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129)
1. **PR**: [#126 RFC: Adding types information to the Package JSON in the  registry](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/126)
1. **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Running Commands](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117)
1. **PR**: [#18 npm audit resolve](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/18)
1. Discuss adding folks to Community Maintainer Team (add/remove labels)

### Notes

### Preference on how to filter workspaces
- This will probably land in a minor of v7
- No rush on ratifying yet
- The poll will stay open so people have more time to vote/comment

### Add file+pack dependency protocol
- This RFC in a nutshell: You can currently list a dependency with using the file protocol and npm will create a symlink to that path. What this RFC wants is to specify a folder but instead of symlinking it we want to pack it in a tarball and then unpack it like if you were just installing it. Drawback, changes to that folder won't be visible immediatly unless you re-install
- Main issue is install does not currently run prepare scripts (there's no building step)
- Instead of adding a new protocol (file+pack) that is not backwards compatible, we could add a new flag that can rebuild before install.
- RFC author couldn't make the call, the discussion will be push to next week

### overrides
- Discussions on UX and how to specify overriden dependencies, dot as an object key is confusing
- I want to override the state of dependecies of some module I'm using
- Will probably land in a minor of v7
- Besides the small UX discussion, everyone agrees to ratify this RFC already
- Isaac will land it

### Adding types information to the Package JSON in the  registry
- Only comment from Jordan is we wouldn't want this field to be only boolean or only accepting relative paths
- RFC author couldn't make the call, the discussion will be push to next week

### npm workspaces - Running Commands
- Discussions on DX for workspace groups as cli arguments, `--` (double dashes) are usually flags for config options on npm, we believe we should be using positional arguments
- Should be carfeul about using a star in a positional argument since this can be problematic

### npm audit resolve
- A PR with a different approach was pushed to the CLI (https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/1494)
- audit has been fully rewritten already

### Adding folks to Community Maintainer Team
- Everyone agrees is a good idea, Darcy and Ed Thomson will collaborate on making this happen.