#### Meeting from: June 10th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **PR**: [#152 RFC: npm fund depth](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/152)
1. **PR**: [#150 RFC: Add file+pack dependency protocol](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/150)
1. **PR**: [#138 RFC: Add &#x60;npm-app-id&#x60; HTTP header](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/138)
1. **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129)
1. **PR**: [#126 RFC: Adding types information to the Package JSON in the  registry](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/126)
1. **PR**: [#121 Added proposal for package version &#x60;link#\[version\](comment)&#x60; syntax](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/121)
1. **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Running Commands](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117)
1. **PR**: [#18 npm audit resolve](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/18)
1. **Added**: Update implemented RFCs to be moved over

### Notes

### npm fund depth
- we are moving away from the `depth` flag in a number of different commands like `outdated`, `update` and probably `ls` too
- the tree in fund is different from the normal tree and applying depth makes implementation more complex
- depth seems to be used often as either all tree deps or direct deps
- there should be more steps on how we prioritize the funding info on the CLI
- how do we meaningfully show information that will actually lead to people funding contributors?
- `npm fund` needs UX design and will be taken care of in the near future by proper designers
- the things i depend the most are most times the most invicible in my project
- we have to find better ways to show the use what they should be funding
- RFC will receive feedback from the discussion

### Add file+pack dependency protocol
- TBD next week

### Add `npm-app-id` HTTP header
- wes had some ideas on expanding this RFC
- should ping folks to move this RFC forward

### overrides
- not expected to be shipped in v7 (maybe v7.1?)
- should be mindful that feature lands on LTS versions

### Adding types information to the Package JSON in the registry
- should ping author on status, but RFC looks good to go

### Added proposal for package version `link#version` syntax
- author not on call, concerns on this feature considering the workspaces work that is in place alreadys

### npm workspaces - Running Commands
- no news
- ruy to be collecting feedback
- there's a specific list of top-level commands supported by the RFC: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117/files#diff-828bb29c16ce81ff3a4108b6e8dab945R33
- "everything should work the same way" - discussion on how we should be able to run all commands from the workspace
- we should expand the subset of supported commands
