#### Meeting from: June 17th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Myles Borins (@MylesBorins)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Jordan Harband (@LJHarb)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **PR**: [#150 RFC: Add file+pack dependency protocol](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/150)
1. **PR**: [#126 RFC: Adding types information to the Package JSON in the registry](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/126)
1. **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com
/npm/rfcs/pull/129)
1. **PR**: [#117 RFC: npm workspaces - Running Commands](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/117)
1. **PR**: [#18 npm audit resolve](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/18)


**Other Action Items**:
- [ ] Create issues for backlogged action items in previous calls
- [ ] Create poll for alternative day/time schedule to accommodate timezones 
- [ ] Review existing **accepted** RFCs & provide an update on their status
- [ ] Update issue template & agenda generation script
- [ ] Update public events calendar & meeting information

### Notes
- Myles Borins is now Product Manager @Github and will be involved with the npm team!
- Open Collab Summit next week

### Add file+pack dependency protocol
- currently it's a pain for users using monorepos to run prepack scripts during the build process for all dependencies
- adding a new protocol might not be the best idea right now considering the current undergoing implementation of workspaces at npm
- pack is not currently on the scope of running subcommands for workspaces
- isaacs seems to be in favor of a protocol and the RFC will probably be discussed again in an upcoming session
### Adding types information to the Package JSON in the registry
- RFC ready to be ratified

### overrides
- specify dependency type not only depedency spec
- override this if its under depedencies

### npm workspaces - Running Commands
- current undergoing poll for preference on how to filter workspaces: https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/160
- probably going to be mentioned next week in the collab summit

### npm audit resolve
- planned to be added as a minor for v7 but may vary depending on implementation
- rfc is tied to the interactive side of it and will probably need to be splitted up, one rfc for functionality and another for the ux feel

