#### Meeting from: April 15th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Glenn Hinks (@ghinks)
- Andrew Hughes (@andrewhughes101)
- Dominykas Blyžė (@dominykas)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#125 [RRFC] Expose dependents API](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/125)
1. **Issue**: [#115 [RRFC] Add top level &#x60;binDependencies&#x60; to package.json](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/115)
1. **PR**: [#114 RFC: Expand list of ignored files](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/114)
1. **PR**: [#103 RFC: Add npm workspaces](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/103)
1. **PR**: [#92 RFC: Add staging workflow for CI and human interoperability](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/92)
1. **Issue**: [#56 [FEATURE] Create RFC for Yarn Resolutions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/56)
1. **PR**: [#129 RFC: Overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129)
1. **PR**: [#121 RFC: Add `link#[version](comment)` syntax to `version`](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/121)
1. **PR**: [#126 RFC: Add types information to the Packument](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/126)

### Notes
- **dependents API**
    - darcy: work has been discussed, but website work depends on that API existing
    - glen:
        - wish to inform downstream dependents, not just the top 1-2
        - who will we impact with a breaking change?
        - inter-generational maintenance transitions
    - darcy: have a downloads API
        - a bit limited, but could help inform community and having community create tooling around pkg maintenance
        - dont' know realistic time frame for exposing dependents API
        - EOY is earliest possible, can't give any promises
        - userland tooling, tedious to maintain, but another avenue
    - glen:
        - in interim: possible for community members say "this is what we're working on, can you run internally and give us an answer?"
        - 1 or 2 things we're concerned about changing, express session module, 11M downloads a week
    - wes:
        - someone posted on twitter about a BigQuery analysis of github projects and npm packages
        - could do analysis you'er talking about without npm doing anything, with some $ behind it
        - could reach out to that person
    - isaacs: 
      - graph database would be cool
      - it would be nice to define boundaries in the OpenRFC call for registry vs cli content
      - kind of weird to discuss here, the registry team isn't on this call
      - couchdb views aren't used in production any more, that's why Jordan's PR isn't easy
    - darcy:
        - We could have a specific registry call OR
        - Bring in folks from the registry to the OpenRFC call whenever we have content lined up 
- **binDependencies**
    - darcy:
        - spoke about in last openRFC call as well
        - looks like jake has been taling to a void unfortunately
        - isaacs can you follow up?
    - isaacs:
        - yes, it's been on my plate, i haven't gotten to it
        - there are some issues with the proposal itself
        - want to dig into the use case and see if something else could be a better solution
- **ignore files and add npm workspaces**
    - ruy: have action items haven't gotten to yet
- **workspaces**
    - ruy:
        - RFC itself should be good to merge
        - some tactical merge process questions
        - made good progress with implementation
        - have list of projects using workspaces, feedback from wes & jordan, thanks
        - still development space
    - darcy:
        - been testing against lerna/yarn use cases
        - want people to adopt npm workspaces as easily as possible
- **staged publishes**
    - darcy: did deep-dive about a month ago, any update?
    - isaacs:
        - need to update RFC and PoC implementation
        - will take over stewardship of it
- **yarn-like resolutions type thing**
    - darcy:
        - did deep dive last week
        - stubbed out schema that made a lot of sense, seemed less hairy
    - isaacs:
        - major RFC, expect it to take long in order to figure out all edge cases, etc
    - jordan:
        - would be nice to have a separable test suite so that resolve can work the same way
    - isaacs:
        - pretty intermingled 
        - arborist buildIdealTree tests are the closest thing we have
        - the plan is to split appart arborist internals and publish/have them available to the broader community
- **link syntax proposal**
    - isaac:
        - this problem seem to be better adressed with workspaces instead
    - ruy:
        - seems like it's coming from a similar kind of pain from the previously discussed `binDependencies` RFC
    - wes:
        - let's skip the comment part
        - let's make sure we poke authors prior to an OpenRFC call
    - darcy:
        - absolutely
        - let's automate that
- **Add types information to the Packument**
    - wes:
        - super helpful
        - migth be unfair to add something to a specific ecosystem while ignoring others
    - isaacs:
        - frameworks rise and fall in popularity
        - package.json data gets put into the packument so the ecosystem could use it today if they want in the full packument - what we'd need to implement is support to the minified packument
            - full packument: everything defined in package.json and more
            - corgi doc: minified packument which only has dependencies, etc - things needed when building the install tree
