#### Meeting from: August 12th, 2020

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Ruy Adorno (@ruadorno)
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Claudia Hern√°ndez (@claudiahdz)
- Christian Siebmanns (@christian24)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Zbigniew Tenerowicz (@naugtur)

### Agenda
1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. Code of Conduct Acknowledgement
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#190 [RRFC] npm run-series &amp;&amp; npm run-parallel](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/190) - @MylesBorins
1. **PR**: [#185 RFC: Add ability to skip script hooks](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/185) - @lumaxis
1. **PR**: [#183 RFC-21: bring back subset of npm_package_* environs](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/183) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
1. **PR**: [#165 RFC for parent package.json](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/165) - @Christian24
1. **PR**: [#129 RFC: overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/129) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#126 RFC: Adding types information to the Package JSON in the  registry](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/126) - @orta
1. **PR**: [#18 npm audit and audit-resolve.json](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/18) - @naugtur

### Notes
- npm 7 announcement
    - We'll be releasing versions throughout the coming weeks of the beta
    - Update notifications should ping you daily for npm@latest-7
- #190 
    - potentially split the proposal
    - questions on syntax/implementation
    - may want to split out functionality vs. strict `&&` functionality
    - running/chaining scripts is a common user/workflow
    - cross platform consistancy is often an issue when trying to accomplish this
    - concern: don't want to re`make` `make`
    - concern: want to make sure exit codes propagate properly
    - people would love to have globbing patterns supported
    - concern: globbing patterns
    - some people are using pre/post lifecycle scripts to try to accomplish this too
    - concern: this is a mindfield...
    - mixed: JSON syntax as a constraint on definition
    - idea: **travis** eqsque `yaml` file to define workflows
    - ask to follow up/add comments to RRFC thread 
- #185
    - want to move forward with this
    - v6 doesn't run anything /w `ignore-scripts`, v7 runs everything... need to fix this... 
    - consensus to ratify (ie. lets merge & ship in the next beta release)
- #183 
    - name, version, config, engines, main, bin to be readded
    - can always fallback & read package.json yourself
    - question: `node -c` standard?
    - question: where is the line?
    - note: information that is contextual to a command should be provided (& should be the case in v7)
    - `exports`, `main` & others can be problematic
    - should be ratified since it's shipped this way in the v7 beta
- #182
    - @darcyclarke to follow up with comments in the PR itself & ping @bnb
- #165
    - thought is that, from the last call, that this was resolved already
    - believe that workspaces solves for this
    - concern: how to update outdated deps locally vs. from the parent
    - examples of how `parent` would be specified: `"parent": "typescript@1.2.3"` & `"parent": "local-thing@file:../local-thingie"`
    - note: implementation would look like pulling down the manifest from the defined `parent` then resolve deps based on what you may have also defined in your local `dependencies`
    - concern: many edges (ex. what do we do w/ `package-lock.json` & what is the developer experience for source control + sharing parents, circular parent references)
    - ask for comments to be added 
- #126
    - @orta is waiting on review of his PR from @isaacs
- #18
    - note: we should do a Deep Dive call on the audit resolve proposal
    - good discussion was had yesterday during the Package Maintence WG call
