#### Meeting from: July 28th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- Nathan LaFreniere (@nlf)
- Alasdair Hurst (@alasdairhurst)
- Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Rebecca Turner (@iarna)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Zbyszek Tenerowicz (@naugtur)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)

### Previously...

- [2021-07-21](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/latest/meetings/2021-07-21.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
1. **PR**: [#418 RFC: Trust system root CA certificates](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/418) - @deltoura
1. **PR**: [#405 RFC: Resolve packages based on Node.js version](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/405) - @deltoura
1. **PR**: [#397 RFC: Peer dependencies should be able to match a full range of prerelease versions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/397) - @alasdairhurst
1. **Issue**: [#420 [RRFC] Don't expand tabs by default](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/420) - @diogoeichert 
1. **PR:** [#422 RFC: audit assertions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/422) - @bnb

### Notes

#### **PR**: [#182 RFC: npm audit licenses](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/182) - @bnb
- @bnb 
  - No updates since last week
  - would love help/willing to pair with others
  - [ ] **Action:** find help to get this over the finish line 

#### **PR**: [#418 RFC: Trust system root CA certificates](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/418) - @deltoura
- @isaacs 
  - reasonable request
  - Ask is to have `npm` should stack system certificate store + defined
  - Cureently, `npm` just passes this information off to `node`
  - [ ] **Action:** needs investigation w/ how this works in core

#### **PR**: [#405 RFC: Resolve packages based on Node.js version](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/405) - @deltoura
- @bnb 
  - `engines` is used as advisory at the moment
  - ...
- @wesleytodd
  - the Node PM WG did work in this area with a **supports** spec
  - potentially `overrides` helps resolve this for end-users
- @ljharb
  - wants some kind of conditional definition for a package maintainer to indicate to a consumer what `version` will work with what `engines`
- @isaacs 
  - we kind of already have a heuristic for this (engines does somewhatdictate sort order) 
  - just use overrides(TM)
- [ ] **Action:** relay that this isn't something we want to support, provide the alternatives & link back to this discussion
- [ ] **Action:** remove the logic to sort based on matching engines & just use 

#### **PR**: [#397 RFC: Peer dependencies should be able to match a full range of prerelease versions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/397) - @alasdairhurst
- @alasdair idea is to add to the set to include pre-releases
- @wraithgar requires changes to `node-semver`
- @darcyclarke sounds very similar to [staged publishes](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/92)
- @isaacs 
  - two options:
    - 1. we could provide a flag like `--include-prereleases` (this is a bomb not a swiss army knife, as you'll get prereleases _everywhere_, but that might be fine?  since you'd just use it when installing the prerelease-using thing for testing in dev?)
    - 2. ...
- @alasdair don't know if options would resolve the peerdependency problem of requiring a dep that resolved to a prerelease that can't then be updated since
- @wesleytodd has used prerelease-specific `dist-tags` for  testing & locking into during development 
- @ljharb sounds like this could be another usecase for `overrides`
- [ ] **Action:** @alsdair to provide more usecases

#### **Issue**: [#420 [RRFC] Don't expand tabs by default](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/420) - @diogoeichert 
- @isaacs we can introduce new flags for this
- Luke Karrys from the `npm` CLI team is going to open an RFC for `package.json` more robust formatting configs

#### **PR:** [#422 RFC: audit assertions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/422) - @bnb
- @bnb this is an RFC in response of recent anguish felt by `npm audit` users
- @isaacs there are other standards being put together we should include
- @wesleytodd note: there is an OpenJS Collab Space that exists as it pertains to this problem in the broader node/javascript ecosystem ([vulnerability reporting kick-off presentation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X-0yb1Nfp_I))
- [ ] **Actions:** do a deep-dive on this next week
