#### Meeting from: November 3rd, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Matt Hayes (@mysterycommand)
- Luke Karrys (@lukekarrys)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Owen Buckley (thescientist13)
- Vincent Bailly (@VincentBailly)
- Jonathan Creamer (@jcreamer898)

### Previously...

- [2021-10-13](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/latest/meetings/2021-10-13.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **PR**: [#481 RFC: Run &#x60;prepare&#x60; Scripts for Linked Bundled Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/481) - @mysterycommand
1. **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs
1. **PR**: [#484 More predictable peer dependency installation](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/484) - @VincentBailly
1. **PR**: [#486 Resolved registry overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/486) - @everett1992

### Notes

#### **PR**: [#481 RFC: Run &#x60;prepare&#x60; Scripts for Linked Bundled Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/481) - @mysterycommand
- @mysterycommand
  - not update
  - need help with the implementation
- **Actions:**
  - @darcyclarke to set up call/connection w/ Mike   
  - @darcyclarke to share slack channel/orgs
  - @ljharb will write RFC in the next week or so

#### **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs & **PR**: [#484 More predictable peer dependency installation](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/484) - @VincentBailly
- @isaacs
  - these changes have fallen out of the work to implement isolated mode
  - need to change the default
  - idea is to not hoist peers above the workspace boundary to resolve issues with conflicting peer sets
- @ljharb
  - this seems like an improvement 
  - this makes the delta between shared & not deps bettter
- @isaacs
  - use cases:
    - workspaces are all parts of one "thing"/program/application 
    - managing disparate projects in the same monorepo which don't have ovarlapping needs/deps
  - change is minimal
  - on isolated mode, it is a deterministic transform of any arbitrary tree, with the benefit of not loading any modules you don't explicit depend on
- @ljharb
  - ideally, workspaces define how they are related to eachother &/or npm can infer the relationships between eachother
  - have been trying to standardize/champion that every peer dep should also be considered a devdep
  - question: pnpm/yarn+pnp support a mechanism where if an optional dep has an associative peerdepepenciesmeta record it makes it available, should npm support this or similar behaivour?
- @isaacs
  - thats some weird behaviour
  - not sure the implications, but may be easy to support
  - we have an escape hatch already, where you can define the dep at the root-level
- **Actions:**
  - @ljharb will write RFC in the next week or so (amending/adding to or showing a  delta between this RFC)

#### **PR**: [#486 Resolved registry overrides](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/486) - @everett1992
- @everett1992
  - resolved key in package lock is problematic for their usecase
- **Actions:**
  - will keep on the agenda for now
  - will try to address async
