#### Meeting from: October 20th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Matt Hayes (@mysterycommand)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)
- Michael Perrotte (@mikemimik)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)

### Previously...

- [2021-10-13](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/latest/meetings/2021-10-13.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#477 Multi-app Monorepo Followup](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/477) - @mysterycommand

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#477 Multi-app Monorepo Followup](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/477) - @mysterycommand
- @mysterycommand
  - wondering if we need an owner for the action items
  - looks like there's a bug in the `npm-packlist` implementation as the "hacky" workaround doesn't work
- @isaacs
  - looks like we're not properly defining the type of dep
- **Action:**
  - @mysterycommand to write initial draft of RFC for running workspace's `prepare` scripts during pack (/cc @mikemimik)
  - @ljharb to write initial draft of workspace layout RFC (/cc @mikemimik)

### Other Topics

#### Installing a workspace into another workspace
- @mikemimic
