#### Meeting from: September 29th, 2021

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Gar (@wraithgar)
- Rick Markins (@rxmarbles)
- Isaac Z. Schlueter (@isaacs)
- Nathan Fritz (@fritzy)
- Luke Karrys (@lukekarrys)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)

### Previously...

- [2021-09-22](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/latest/meetings/2021-09-22.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
1. **Issue**: [#445 ⚠️ [RRFC] Breaking changes for &#x60;npm@8&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/445) - @nlf
1. **PR**: [#422 RFC: audit assertions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/422) - @bnb
1. **Issue**: [#466 [RRFC] &#x60;npm publish --if-needed&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/466) - @ljharb
1. **PR**: [#434 Support package-lock.json v3 in npm 7](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/434) - @remcohaszing

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#445 ⚠️ [RRFC] Breaking changes for &#x60;npm@8&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/445) - @nlf
- @wraithgar
  - only update here is that `node-gyp` will also get update in `npm@8` 

#### **PR**: [#422 RFC: audit assertions](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/422) - @bnb
- @darcyclarke
  - no updates from last week (need to create new RFC)  

#### **Issue**: [#466 [RRFC] &#x60;npm publish --if-needed&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/466) - @ljharb
- @ljharb
  - `npm publish` is not repeatable today
- @isaacs
  - `npm publish` should just work this way
  - should have been a `PUT` & not a `POST`
  - `npm publish` checks for existing versions, so we'd have to add `--force` 
- @bnb
  - could this be adapted for `npm unpublish`
- **Action:**
  - [ ] @darcyclarke backlog work item to add `--force` support to `publish`
  - [ ] @darcyclarke backlog work item to add repeatable publishes for the same `dist.shasum`

#### **PR**: [#434 Support package-lock.json v3 in npm 7](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/434) - @remcohaszing
- @isaacs 
- **Action:**
  - [ ] @isaacs will review & ratify
  - [ ] @darcyclarke to backlog work item

#### Changing to Cache dir away from global
- @bnb
  - has been some feedback/comms around the usecase of setting `prefix` to a user owned dir vs. the default global path
  - this is mostly to address new users & their DX
- @isaacs
  - you want node/npm in your path
- @ljharb
  - ideally, new users aren't managing/installing node on their own (ex. node version managers, node installers etc.)
- @wraithgar
  - it's in everyone's best interest to point new users to a version manager/tool

#### New TLS Enforcement on the npm Registry
- @ljharb
  - for `nvm`, it doesn't seem like there's any option to continue to support old versions of npm (ex. `npm@1`), node & run CI for them
- @isaacs 
  - the thing that is blocking is that the old version of node can no longer connect to the npm registry
  - only work around would be to compile node w/ a newer version of openssl
- @ljharb
  - for security purposes what does this change help prevent

