#### Meeting from: January 19th, 2022

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)
- Nathan Fritz (@fritzy)
- Wes Garland (@wesgarland4)

### Previously...

- [2021-12-15](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-15.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
	   - OpenJS World 2022 
	       - https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/
	       - CFP: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/program/cfp/
1. **Issue**: [#511 [RRFC] remove &#x60;npm-shrinkwrap.json&#x60; from the list of unignorable files](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/511) - @ljharb
  - @ljharb was using shrinkwrap in a specific project and found out that `npm-shrinkwrap.json` is part of the list of files that can't be ignored
  - @ljharb would like for it to be possible to ignore the file in case it's in either `.gitignore` or `.npmignore`
  - @darcyclarke it is likely that `npm-shrinkwrap.json` still has some usage in the ecosystem
  - @ljharb it would be an opt-in behavior to stop shipping `npm-shrinkwrap.json` in case it's in an ignore file
  - @mylesborins recalls a recent episode in which `npm-shrinkwrap.json` helped unblock the node core team to handle a broken transitive dependency and being able to rely on it for globally-installed users by shipping that file, just to add that there's still lots of value in that feature
  - @darcyclarke would still prefer to ship this in a major version in case some users are inadvertly ignoring something that they would not, trying to stay on the safe side
  - @mylesborins would like to bring in the conversation of having some sort of validation prior to publishing a package
  - @ljharb would like for any files extraneous to that package to be highlighted at the moment of publishing
  - @ruyadorno [related approved RFC publish prompt](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/main/accepted/0028-publish-prompt.md)
  - **Actions:**
    - [ ] @darcyclarke backlog a ticket to add messaging about diff of files include in a package (comparing `.npmignore` & `.gitignore` to `files`)
    - [ ] @darcyclarke backlog a ticket for next major, dropping `npm-packlist` opt-in of `npm-shrinkwrap.json` files
1. **Discussion:** [#508 Show which tag will be used in the output of `npm publish`](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/discussions/508) ~ `@fvictorio`
  - @ruyadorno sounds like a good idea, we should just backlog it
  - @ljharb also likes the idea of improving the emails with more relevant info, can be useful to highlight any security threat, in case access gets compromised
  - **Actions:**
    - [ ] @darcyclarke take feedback on improved publish email information back to registry team under the assumption its a security improvement
    - [ ] @darcyclarke backlog ticket to address this feature work (ie. improve `npm publish` output)
1. **Discussion:** [#440 Peer dependency groups](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/discussions/440) ~ `@Jamesernator`
  - @darcyclarke 
    - seems like this could be supported by a future "package distributions" RFC
  - @bradleyfarias
    - node.js recently shipped a change which caused native C modules to not be importable, this could be related
  - @ruyadorno
    - sounds a little bit different from the distributions RFC idea in which it means to give a more flexible way for transitive packages to consume alternative packages given that any of the alternatives is provided as a peer dependency
    - it sounds like an interesting idea worth exploring, maybe turn this discussion into an actual RFC?
  - **Action:**
    - [ ] @darcyclarke to create RFC for "package distributions" by next week 
1. **Discussion:** [#501 npm cli tool should report name similarity problems in --dry-run](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/discussions/501) ~ `@msikma`
  - @ljharb
    - :+1:
  - **Actions:**
    - [ ] @darcyclarke to circle back with registry team on getting an endpoint for package name validation  
1. **Discussion:** [#496  Mention workspace in run-script output header](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/discussions/496) ~ `@smhg`
  - @fritzy
    - should have brackets or some kind of visual indication this output is specific to the workspace name & not being logged from the command/script 
  - **Actions:**
    - [ ] @darcyclarke to backlog adding this output to `--workspace` aware commands (ex. `run`, `exec` ...)
