#### Meeting from: January 12th, 2022

# Open RFC Meeting (npm)

### Attendees
- Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
- Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
- Nathan LaFreniere (@nlf)
- Nathan Fritz (@fritzy)
- Nish Sinha (@nishnha)
- John Caine (@jjcaine)
- Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)
- Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
- Tierney Cyren (@bnb)
- Steven (@styfle)

### Previously...

- [2021-12-15](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/blob/main/meetings/2021-12-15.md)

### Agenda

1. **Housekeeping**
	1. Introduction(s)
	1. [Code of Conduct Acknowledgement](https://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct)
	1. Outline Intentions & Desired Outcomes
	1. Announcements
	   - overrides shipped
	   - 2fa improvements
	   - OpenJS World 2022 
	       - https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/
	       - CFP: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/program/cfp/
1. **Issue**: [#509 [RRFC] Change the default save-prefix from ^ to none](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/509) - @zkldi
1. **PR**: [#4227 Change the default save-prefix from ^ to none](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4227) - @zkldi
1. **PR**: [#4223 fix: npm update --save](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4223) - @ruyadorno
1. **PR**: [#4222 Dependabot: &#x60;npm audit &lt;fix&gt; --package&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4222) - @Nishnha
1. **Issue**: [#499 [RRFC] Custom logging location](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/499) - @EvanCarroll
1. **Issue**: [#497 [RRFC] Warn users when skipping alias/git deps during audit](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/497) - @rotem-cider
1. **PR**: [#488 Make npm install scripts opt-in](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/488) - @tolmasky
1. **PR**: [#481 RFC: Run &#x60;prepare&#x60; Scripts for Linked Bundled Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/481) - @mysterycommand
1. **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs

### Notes

#### **Issue**: [#509 [RRFC] Change the default save-prefix from ^ to none](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/509) - @zkldi
#### **PR**: [#4227 Change the default save-prefix from ^ to none](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4227) - @zkldi
- @darcyclarke
  - tl;dr we probably won't ever do this...
- @ljharb
  - problem statements are accurate & need to be addressed
      - known bad actor in your dep tree
  - solution is not ideal & would cause other issues
  - there's several misconceptions around `npm install` mixed with what may be bugs in the cli
- @thescientist13
  - appreciate the balanced
  - seems like there's a need for better documentation
- @ruyadorno 
  - let's make sure we document these problem statements
- @bnb
  - ...
- @darcyclarke
  - package quality indicators
- @mylesborins
  - lockfiles vs. shrinkwrap usecases
  - 
  - cli vs libraries, what if it makes sense for a package with a bin to have lockfile but not look at that otherwise
  - maybe just a set of best practices around these with the tooling we have today

#### **PR**: [#4223 fix: npm update --save](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4223) - @ruyadorno 
- @darcyclarke
  - this is one of the most asked for bugs/features that we lost in `npm@7`
- @ruyadorno 
  - we have implemented `npm update --save` which should function the same as `npm update` did back in `npm@6` where package specs can be saved back to `package.json` & not just `package-lock.json`
  - `save` config as a default has always been `true`
  - `no-save` (aka. `save=false`) is also a flag to be considered as it is used to *not* save back to `package-lock.json`
- @fritzy 
  - this may land next week
  - need consider if this was/is a bug
 
#### **PR**: [#4222 Dependabot: &#x60;npm audit &lt;fix&gt; --package&#x60;](https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/4222) - @Nishnha
- @darcyclarke 
  - Draft PR from the dependabot team that provides a scoped `npm audit`
- @Nishnha
  - hope is to be able to scope `npm audit fix` to a specific package
  - wip, still need work to support transitive dependencies
- @ruyadorno 
  - is the plan to also use overrides to replace transitive deps?
- @Nishnha
  - Yes we want to be able to also replace any vulnerable transitive dep
  - There's some discrepancies between update and audit we need to look into
- @darcyclarke 
  - Stretch goal of providing info of a non-installed package
- **Actions:**
  - [ ] @darcyclarke to identify DRI to work w/ Dependabot team to help 
 
#### **Issue**: [#499 [RRFC] Custom logging location](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/499) - @EvanCarroll
- @lukekarrys
  - 
- **Actions:**
  - [ ] @darcyclarke to backlog a ticket for adding this config

#### **Issue**: [#497 [RRFC] Warn users when skipping alias/git deps during audit](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/497) - @rotem-cider
- @ljharb
  - should properly audit aliases and warn on git deps
  - basically audit as much things as possible, warn on anything we can not audit
- **Actions:**
  - [ ] @darcyclarke to backlog a ticket for making `npm:` alias' & `overrides` autidble
  - [ ] @darcyclarke to backlog a ticket for improving output when packages are skipped from the audit process
 
#### **PR**: [#488 Make npm install scripts opt-in](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/488) - @tolmasky
- @styfle
  - sounds like this is great in an ideal world, maybe not for a couple years
  - prebuilt binaries are one of the main reasons install scripts are necessary, if we could solve these two it would help a lot:
    - have a way to detect the correct prebuilt binary (musl vs glibc) for current platform
    - fallback to WASM if prebuilt binary not found for current platform
- @darcyclarke
  - let's bring in more ideas/features that will enable the future in which scripts can be opt-out by default
  - this will probably not land in a few years, we need time for the ecosystem to adapt
- @mylesborins
  - not convinced that getting rid of scripts is the right call
  - the fact that the ecosystem is using it for getting right prebuilt binaries is more of a symptom that we need to improve that story

#### **PR**: [#481 RFC: Run &#x60;prepare&#x60; Scripts for Linked Bundled Dependencies](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/481) - @mysterycommand
- @darcyclarke
  - this is probably a bug that will get some eyes very soon as we tackle the backlog
#### **PR**: [#375 Define which dependencies are shared among workspace projects](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/pull/375) - @isaacs
- @ljharb
  - willing to help out with this
